#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
CEGUI Unified Editor Quickstart guide
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Greyedout
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
A: Why are there no images in this guide? A: Because I am lazy AND because
 the interface keeps changing.
 Feel free to provide patches to make this guide more picturey.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now that you've started the editor, it's time to take a few minutes to learn
 basic concepts of it.
 Lets start with some terminology.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\emph on
Project file
\emph default
 - encapsulates enough information to start up embedded CEGUI and use it
 to open layouts, animations and possible other data types
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\emph on
CEGUI resources
\emph default
 - schemes, imagesets, looknfeels and possibly other CEGUI data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\emph on
Compatibility layer
\emph default
 - a facility that can convert a CEGUI resource from one version to another
 (there usually are 2 layers to provide conversion both ways but it's not
 a strict requirement)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\emph on
Embedded CEGUI
\emph default
 - the editor uses CEGUI internally to make sure it's all WYSIWYG, embedded
 CEGUI is the CEGUI instance that runs in the editor, project file is needed
 to start it
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Opening existing files and projects
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some of the simpler datafiles (e.g.
 imagesets) can be opened without having a project file setup, however it
 is still recommended to have a project opened for everything since that
 way your custom resource provider path settings are honoured.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
(optional) open a project - 
\emph on
File / Open project
\emph default
 will do the trick (start with data/samples/StockDatafiles_VERSION.project
 if you just want to try things out)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
open a file - 
\emph on
File / Open file
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Creating your own project file
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Greyedout
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
If you are working on a project and are not a programmer, you probably should
 ask one of the coders to set up a project file for you.
 They can simply send you the archived folder to open or even commit it
 to your team repository for more efficient workflow.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Needed parts:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
target CEGUI version
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
paths! same as you use in DefaultResourceProvider setResourceGroup calls
 (in CEGUI stock data it's the 
\emph on
datafile
\emph default
s folder)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Not much is needed, right? Yet many have trouble coming up with a project
 file, so listen up!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Relocatable folder
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Create a folder where you will keep all CEGUI data for your project.
 You will place the project file into this folder.
 The project file is designed to be 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

version control friendly
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 and is relocatable (you can simply move it around on the disk).
 Your colleagues can clone/checkout and move it somewhere else and it will
 still work unless you do something stupid, like reference files across
 different drives (Windows only).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Moment of creation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
File / New / Project
\emph default
 will ask you for a name and where to save the new project file.
 Choose a fitting name and select the relocatable folder and a file in it
 (e.g.
 
\emph on
Game.project
\emph default
) and press OK.
 Project name and the filename of the project file are separate, even though
 they will be same or similar in most cases.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Project settings
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After the file is created you will be asked for target CEGUI version and
 paths, among other things.
 Make sure you get everything right (or ask a fellow programmer from your
 project to help with this, they will know the values).
 The editor will attempt to bootstrap CEGUI based on your values after you
 press OK.
 Don't continue with this guide unless everything goes smoothly and no error
 dialogs are shown!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Referencing files
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
OK, your project file has been creating and embedded CEGUI tied to it started
 correctly.
 You are almost there, congrats!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now, lets add some files to the project so that it's easier to work with
 it.
 The project file has a simple tree of nodes, each node referencing a file.
 It does not automatically scan and add anything.
 You have to add files manually and explicitly.
 (The editor may provide some auto-discovery tool in the future.)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Start by right clicking the project manager and selecting Create folder.
 This will create a container for your file references (no folder is created
 on disk, this is all project file-only).
 You can then add files, either new or existing on disk already.
 Make sure to avoid adding files from outside the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset


\emph on
relocatable folder
\emph default

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Otherwise your colleagues might have trouble opening them after you commit.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Creating new files
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
File / New / Type of file
\emph default
 will create a new empty file of given type.
 The editor will detect that it's empty when you try to open it (if the
 file only has CR and/or LF characters, it is deemed empty).
 You can start working on the file after you open it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Further reading
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This has been just a really quick run through the basics to get you started.
 See the 
\emph on
user-manual.pdf
\emph default
 for more in-depth documentation (please read it before asking questions
 on IRC / forum).
 You can also find 
\emph on
developer-manual.pdf
\emph default
 interesting if you want to know how internals work or troubleshoot an issue.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
